Question 1
What is the primary function of SQL? (factual)

To manage and manipulate data in relational databases.
To design the user interface of a website.
To create operating systems.
To develop mobile applications.
Explanation
SQL (Structured Query Language) is specifically designed for managing and manipulating data within relational database management systems (RDBMS).

Question 2
Which SQL command is used to retrieve data from a database? (factual)

INSERT
UPDATE
SELECT
DELETE
Explanation
The SELECT command is used to retrieve data from one or more tables in a database. The other commands are for inserting, updating, and deleting data, respectively.

Question 3
True or False: Triggers are executed manually by the user. (trueFalse)

True
False
Explanation
False. Triggers are automatically executed in response to certain events on a table, not manually.

Question 4
Match the SQL command with its function:
1. INSERT
2. UPDATE
3. DELETE

A. Modifies existing data
B. Adds new data
C. Removes data
(conceptual)

1-A, 2-B, 3-C
1-B, 2-A, 3-C
1-C, 2-A, 3-B
1-B, 2-C, 3-A
Explanation
The correct matching is: INSERT (B) adds new data, UPDATE (A) modifies existing data, and DELETE (C) removes data.

Question 5
You need to retrieve customer names and their corresponding order IDs from two tables, `Customers` and `Orders`. Which type of JOIN is most suitable if you only want to see customers who have placed orders? (application)

LEFT JOIN
RIGHT JOIN
FULL OUTER JOIN
INNER JOIN
Explanation
INNER JOIN returns only the rows that have matching values in both tables, meaning it will only show customers who have orders in the `Orders` table.

Question 6
Which of the following is a benefit of using Stored Procedures? (conceptual)

They automatically update table schemas.
They are precompiled for faster execution and reusability.
They can only be executed once.
They replace the need for SQL entirely.
Explanation
Stored procedures are precompiled sets of SQL statements, which makes them more efficient and reusable compared to running individual queries repeatedly.

Question 7
A trigger is best described as: (conceptual)

A function that calculates values in SQL.
A stored procedure that executes automatically in response to certain events.
A way to manually back up a database.
A tool for designing database schemas.
Explanation
Triggers are special types of stored procedures that automatically execute when specific events (like INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE) occur on a table.

Question 8
Consider the following pseudo-code for a trigger:

```
TRIGGER on 'Orders' AFTER INSERT:
  UPDATE 'Products' SET Stock = Stock - NEW.Quantity
  WHERE ProductID = NEW.ProductID
```
What is the purpose of this trigger? (implementation-based)

To increase the stock level of products when a new order is placed.
To prevent new orders from being created.
To update the stock level of products when a new order is placed.
To delete products from the database.
Explanation
The trigger updates the stock level of products by subtracting the quantity ordered from the current stock when a new order is placed.

Question 9
Fill in the blank: Stored procedures improve ________ by precompiling SQL statements, and ________ them for reuse. (advanced application)

security, limiting
performance, storing
readability, simplifying
complexity, hiding
Explanation
Stored procedures improve performance by precompiling SQL statements and storing them for reuse. This avoids recompiling the same queries every time, thus improving efficiency.

Question 10
You want to create a trigger that logs all DELETE operations on the `Employees` table into an `EmployeeAudit` table. Which event should the trigger be associated with? (implementation-based)

AFTER INSERT
BEFORE UPDATE
AFTER DELETE
BEFORE SELECT
Explanation
To log DELETE operations, the trigger should be associated with the AFTER DELETE event, ensuring that the logging occurs after the deletion is complete.
